feat(EmptyState): Add EmptyState component (#2285)
cengage/react-magma: website/react-magma-docs/src/pages/api/empty-state.mdx

---
pageTitle: Empty State API
title: Empty State
props:
  - EmptyStateProps
---

<PageContent componentName="empty_state" type="api">

<LeadParagraph>

>   The EmptyState component communicates a lack of content and guides users

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  The Empty State component communicates a lack of content and guides users
```

  towards action. It supports an icon, title, description, composed action
  buttons, and additional custom content.
</LeadParagraph>

## Basic Usage

```tsx
import React from 'react';

import {
  EmptyState,
  Button,
  ButtonColor,
  ButtonVariant,
  ButtonGroup,
} from 'react-magma-dom';
import { SearchIcon } from 'react-magma-icons';

export function Example() {
  return (
    <EmptyState
      icon={<SearchIcon />}
      title="No results found"
      description="Try adjusting your search or filter criteria to find the courses you are looking for."
      actions={
        <ButtonGroup>
          <Button color={ButtonColor.primary}>Search Again</Button>
          <Button color={ButtonColor.secondary}>Clear Filters</Button>
          <Button color={ButtonColor.primary} variant={ButtonVariant.link}>
            Browse All Courses
          </Button>
        </ButtonGroup>
      }
    />
  );
}
```

> ## Tertiary Action

Reviewer: There is no tertiary action anymore, so we can remove this example

      description="You're all caught up! There are no assignments or quizzes due this week."
    />
  );
}
```

## Minimal

At minimum, you can render an EmptyState with just a title.

```tsx
import React from 'react';

import { EmptyState } from 'react-magma-dom';

export function Example() {
  return <EmptyState title="No courses enrolled" />;
}
```

## Custom Graphic

Use the `customGraphic` prop to replace the entire circular icon area with your own content. Unlike `icon`, which is always rendered inside a colored circle, `customGraphic` renders as-is with no wrapper. If both `icon` and `customGraphic` are provided, `customGraphic` takes priority.

```tsx
import React from 'react';

import { EmptyState, Button, ButtonColor } from 'react-magma-dom';
import { SearchIcon } from 'react-magma-icons';

export function Example() {
  return (
    <EmptyState
      customGraphic={
        <svg viewBox="0 0 200 150" width="200" height="150" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg">
          <rect width="200" height="150" rx="0" fill="#E0E0E0" />
          <text x="100" y="80" textAnchor="middle" fill="#9E9E9E" fontSize="16" fontFamily="sans-serif">Graphic</text>

>         </svg>

Reviewer: I know it's meant to be an example, but the color contrast is not accessible so maybe we can change the text color so we don't get flagged for this

<img width="967" height="863" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/a7b76e22-432c-4d53-966d-07987ce2a552" />

Author: Fixed. Updated the SVG text fill from #9E9E9E to #616161, achieving ~4.97:1 contrast against the #E0E0E0 background (WCAG AA compliant). The axe checker still marks it as “Inconclusive,” which is expected since it can’t reliably detect background colors for SVG <text> elements.

      }
      title="No courses found"
      description="Try browsing by category instead."
      actions={
        <Button color={ButtonColor.primary}>Browse Courses</Button>
      }
    />
  );
}
```

> ## Inverse

Reviewer: Super minor, but we typically have the Inverse example last on our components.

              >
                Browse All Courses
              </Button>
            </ButtonGroup>
          }
        />
      </CardBody>
    </Card>
  );
}
```

## Loading State

Use the `isLoading` prop to show a loading spinner instead of the content. This is useful when data is being fetched.

```tsx
import React from 'react';

import { EmptyState } from 'react-magma-dom';

export function Example() {
  return <EmptyState isLoading />;
}
```

The loading spinner color adapts to `isDanger` and `isInverse` props.

## Additional Content

Use the `additionalContent` prop to render custom content between the text and action buttons. This is useful for inline search fields, filter chips, or other interactive elements.

```tsx
import React from 'react';

import { EmptyState, Search } from 'react-magma-dom';
import { SearchIcon } from 'react-magma-icons';

export function Example() {
  return (
    <EmptyState
      icon={<SearchIcon />}
      title="No results found"
      description="Try a different search term or browse by category."
      additionalContent={
        <Search isClearable placeholder="Search courses..." />
      }
    />
  );
}
```

> 

Reviewer: We can improve the spacing here by adding subheadings

```
### Tag
### Input
### Toggle
```
